Hi everyone,

I'm supposed to talk about animations today, and I will...kind of.
But, I'd like to do something a little different.
I'm not going to show any code or really get into the technical details of anything.
Rather, I want to share an idea...a mindset.
I'm not trying to force anything on anyone, but I think it's important for what we do.
Allow me to share a story that I created.
We'll talk about it after, and I'll explain my thoughts.
Cool?

Also, note, the gender of the characters in the story is not important.
It is merely an illustration of one perspective.



Storytime...



So, what the heck was that all about?
And what ever happened to Engineering?
Well, this story highlights the Design-Engineering mindset, or rather the lack of.
Too often do I see us breaking designers' hearts.
It seems implementing a design exactly as it was created often purposes a problem.
But instead of solving the problem, we find ways to avoid it.
"Oh this increases technical complexity a ton, let's simplify"
"Oh this skyrockets our scope, let's do this later (aka never)"
Specifically, implementing animations is a common trigger to these excuses.

Why is it so important to not break out designers hearts?
In my opinion, a great design tells a story. It invokes emotions and brings character to the product.
Animation is one great tool in a designer's toolbelt that brings energy to a design.
It is a story in of itself - the change of values over time from one point to another.
You see, when we find reasons to not fulfill a designer's creation, to not implement their animations, or any other design element for that matter, we are taking the life out of the design.
We are stripping it of character and emotion.

What ever happened to Engineering?
Perhaps he makes an epic return in Chapter 2. Perhaps not.
It is our job as engineers to create Chapter 2...to not break our designers hearts.
And, so, honestly I don't see the value in sitting here and showing you how to implement animations.
Because, I believe, that without a Design-Engineering mindset, we will continue to find excuses not to meet design face to face.
I don't think you all need to be as passionate about design or animation as I am, but I think we all have to at least appreciate what it is a designer does, and the impact their designs have on a product.

I encourage everyone to work very closely with your designers.
Understand what it is they do everyday, what problems they think about, and what tools they use to solve those problems.
The best way to understand a designer is to become one.
This, in my opinion, is what the Design-Engineering mindset is all about.
Thank you.

